README.md, before:

# Fireplace

Fireplace is a packaged version of the Firefox Marketplace's front-end.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mozilla/fireplace.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mozilla/fireplace)

## Glossary

<dl>
  <dt>Chimney</dt>
  <dd>A bridge between Flue and the actual Zamboni API</dd>

  <dt>Damper</dt>
  <dd>A node.js server that serves a browser-friendly version of Fireplace</dd>

  <dt>Flue</dt>
  <dd>A mocked-out version of the Marketplace API.</dd>

  <dt>Hearth</dt>
  <dd>The source code for Fireplace.</dd>

  <dt>Inferno</dt>
  <dd>A build server which generates a packaged version of the Marketplace.</dd>

  <dt>Smoke Alarm</dt>
  <dd>A functional test runner for great justice.</dd>

  <dt>Yule Log</dt>
  <dd>A fake version of Fireplace to provide the Gaia team with a package that can
  be shipped and later upgraded to the real Fireplace.</dd>
</dl>

## Installation

```bash
npm install -d
```

Our dependencies:

- `nunjucks`: For templates
- `stylus`: For stylesheets

If you plan on doing compilation (i.e.: you're Wil Clouser), you'll also need

- `clean-css`: For minifying CSS or whatever
- `requirejs`: For warming up Spaceheater
- `uglify-js`: For minifying JS and L10n string extraction

### Flue

Comprehensive Flue documentation can be found in
[Flue's README](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/blob/master/flue/README.rst).

## Yule Log

To create a new Yule Log package for production:

    make log

For -dev:

    NAME='Dev' DOMAIN='marketplace-dev.allizom.org' make log

For stage:

    NAME='Stage' DOMAIN='marketplace.allizom.org' make log

### Getting node/npm

#### OS X

```bash
brew install node
```

And make sure that `/usr/local/share/npm/bin` is in your `$PATH`, à la: ::

```bash
export PATH=/usr/local/share/npm/bin:$PATH
```


## Usage

From the terminal, run the following command

```bash
node damper.js
```

This will start a local server on 0.0.0.0:8675 by default.

To control the hostname and port you can use the following otions

```bash
node damper.js --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8888
```

In addition to an HTTP server, the damper will also run a Stylus watcher (to
recompile CSS as it's edited) and a template watcher (to recompile templates
as they're edited).

For instructions on running Flue (the mock API server), please see the [Flue
docs](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/blob/master/flue/README.rst).


### Compiling

To run the compilation process, which compiles templates, CSS, and locale
files, run the damper with the `--compile` argument:

```bash
node damper.js --compile
```

The damper will not start a local server in this case, but a `strings.po` file
will be generated.


### Compiling Includes

If you need to compile include files (i.e.: for Space Heater or a less HTTP-
heavy version of the project), run `make includes`. This will generate two files:

```
hearth/media/include.js
hearth/media/css/include.css
```

The CSS in `include.css` is generated in the order in which CSS files are
included in `hearth/index.html`.

`include.js` uses a lightweight AMD loader (rather than require.js). This keeps
file size down and also makes it possible to name-mangle internal keywords which
otherwise wouldn't be minifiable. Note that the only safe globals are `require`
and `define`---using any other non-browser globals will result in errors. I.e.:
accessing `_` without requiring `'underscore'` will cause the code to fail. Also
note that all modules must include a name as the first parameter.

Note that you need the dev dependencies to run this compilation. You can get
them by running `npm install -d`.


## Localizing

A detailed guide to extracting strings and creating JS language packs can be
found [on the wiki](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/wiki/L10n#extracting-strings).


## The API

[Read the docs.](http://firefox-marketplace-api.readthedocs.org/)


## Bugs

- If new templates or ``.styl`` files are added, they will not be recognized
  until the damper is restarted. Deleted files may also cause problems.


## Tests

Install casper

```bash
brew install casperjs
```


### Running unit tests:

Load [http://localhost:8675/tests](http://localhost:8675/tests) in your browser.


### Running functional tests:

Before you run the functional tests, make sure your `settings_local.js` file has
the subset of keys found in
[`settings_travis.js`](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/blob/master/hearth/media/js/settings_travis.js).

```bash
make test
```

## Missing Features

- `numberfmt` doesn't work (should probably be integrated with L10n
  pluralization)


## Local Development With Nginx

If you want to run Fireplace locally in a way that's similar to
production, you can use [nginx](http://nginx.org/).
This snippet is an ``nginx.conf`` example. You'll probably want to
edit the port numbers to match your own configuration.

Snippet:

    http {
        ...
        server {
            # Listening on port 80 is nice but you have to start nginx
            # with the right permissions.
            listen       80 default;
            # Set a host name. You also have to alias this host to
            # 127.0.0.1 in /etc/hosts
            server_name  fireplace.local;

            location /mozpay/ {
                # This is an optional alias to your local Webpay server
                # so you can process payments.
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8000;
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
            }

            location / {
                # This is an alias to the local Fireplace server (damper)
                # to mimic a hosted Fireplace.
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8675;
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
            }

            location /developers/ {
                # This is an optional alias to your local Zamboni so
                # you can use the DevHub.
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
            }

            location /users {
                # Allows login to work on the devhub.
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
                if ($http_referer ~ '^http://[^/]*?/developers') {
                    proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
                    break;
                }
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8675;
            }

            location /media {
                # Conditional proxying of media for devhub (Zamboni) and fireplace.
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
                if ($http_referer ~ '^http://[^/]*?/(developers|media/css/mkt|media/css/devreg)') {
                    proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
                    break;
                }
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8675;
            }

            location /tmp {
                # Serve uploaded images from Zamboni.
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
            }
        }
    }

Commit message:

add settings for fireplace to README

README.md, after:

# Fireplace

Fireplace is a packaged version of the Firefox Marketplace's front-end.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mozilla/fireplace.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mozilla/fireplace)

## Glossary

<dl>
  <dt>Chimney</dt>
  <dd>A bridge between Flue and the actual Zamboni API</dd>

  <dt>Damper</dt>
  <dd>A node.js server that serves a browser-friendly version of Fireplace</dd>

  <dt>Flue</dt>
  <dd>A mocked-out version of the Marketplace API.</dd>

  <dt>Hearth</dt>
  <dd>The source code for Fireplace.</dd>

  <dt>Inferno</dt>
  <dd>A build server which generates a packaged version of the Marketplace.</dd>

  <dt>Smoke Alarm</dt>
  <dd>A functional test runner for great justice.</dd>

  <dt>Yule Log</dt>
  <dd>A fake version of Fireplace to provide the Gaia team with a package that can
  be shipped and later upgraded to the real Fireplace.</dd>
</dl>

## Installation

```bash
npm install -d
```

Our dependencies:

- `nunjucks`: For templates
- `stylus`: For stylesheets

If you plan on doing compilation (i.e.: you're Wil Clouser), you'll also need

- `clean-css`: For minifying CSS or whatever
- `requirejs`: For warming up Spaceheater
- `uglify-js`: For minifying JS and L10n string extraction

### Flue

Comprehensive Flue documentation can be found in
[Flue's README](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/blob/master/flue/README.rst).

## Yule Log

To create a new Yule Log package for production:

    make log

For -dev:

    NAME='Dev' DOMAIN='marketplace-dev.allizom.org' make log

For stage:

    NAME='Stage' DOMAIN='marketplace.allizom.org' make log

### Getting node/npm

#### OS X

```bash
brew install node
```

And make sure that `/usr/local/share/npm/bin` is in your `$PATH`, à la: ::

```bash
export PATH=/usr/local/share/npm/bin:$PATH
```


## Usage

From the terminal, run the following command

```bash
node damper.js
```

This will start a local server on 0.0.0.0:8675 by default.

To control the hostname and port you can use the following otions

```bash
node damper.js --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8888
```

In addition to an HTTP server, the damper will also run a Stylus watcher (to
recompile CSS as it's edited) and a template watcher (to recompile templates
as they're edited).

For instructions on running Flue (the mock API server), please see the [Flue
docs](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/blob/master/flue/README.rst).


### Compiling

To run the compilation process, which compiles templates, CSS, and locale
files, run the damper with the `--compile` argument:

```bash
node damper.js --compile
```

The damper will not start a local server in this case, but a `strings.po` file
will be generated.


### Compiling Includes

If you need to compile include files (i.e.: for Space Heater or a less HTTP-
heavy version of the project), run `make includes`. This will generate two files:

```
hearth/media/include.js
hearth/media/css/include.css
```

The CSS in `include.css` is generated in the order in which CSS files are
included in `hearth/index.html`.

`include.js` uses a lightweight AMD loader (rather than require.js). This keeps
file size down and also makes it possible to name-mangle internal keywords which
otherwise wouldn't be minifiable. Note that the only safe globals are `require`
and `define`---using any other non-browser globals will result in errors. I.e.:
accessing `_` without requiring `'underscore'` will cause the code to fail. Also
note that all modules must include a name as the first parameter.

Note that you need the dev dependencies to run this compilation. You can get
them by running `npm install -d`.


## Localizing

A detailed guide to extracting strings and creating JS language packs can be
found [on the wiki](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/wiki/L10n#extracting-strings).


## The API

[Read the docs.](http://firefox-marketplace-api.readthedocs.org/)


## Bugs

- If new templates or ``.styl`` files are added, they will not be recognized
  until the damper is restarted. Deleted files may also cause problems.


## Tests

Install casper

```bash
brew install casperjs
```


### Running unit tests:

Load [http://localhost:8675/tests](http://localhost:8675/tests) in your browser.


### Running functional tests:

Before you run the functional tests, make sure your `settings_local.js` file has
the subset of keys found in
[`settings_travis.js`](https://github.com/mozilla/fireplace/blob/master/hearth/media/js/settings_travis.js).

```bash
make test
```

## Missing Features

- `numberfmt` doesn't work (should probably be integrated with L10n
  pluralization)


## Local Development With Nginx

If you want to run Fireplace locally in a way that's similar to
production, you can use [nginx](http://nginx.org/).
This snippet is an ``nginx.conf`` example. You'll probably want to
edit the port numbers to match your own configuration. Also you'll
need to edit `hearth/media/js/settings_local.js` (if it doesn't exist
copy it from `settings_local.js.dist` in the same directory) if you
want to point at your local zamboni.

Snippet:

    http {
        ...
        server {
            # Listening on port 80 is nice but you have to start nginx
            # with the right permissions.
            listen       80 default;
            # Set a host name. You also have to alias this host to
            # 127.0.0.1 in /etc/hosts
            server_name  fireplace.local;

            location /mozpay/ {
                # This is an optional alias to your local Webpay server
                # so you can process payments.
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8000;
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
            }

            location / {
                # This is an alias to the local Fireplace server (damper)
                # to mimic a hosted Fireplace.
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8675;
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
            }

            location /developers/ {
                # This is an optional alias to your local Zamboni so
                # you can use the DevHub.
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
            }

            location /users {
                # Allows login to work on the devhub.
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
                if ($http_referer ~ '^http://[^/]*?/developers') {
                    proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
                    break;
                }
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8675;
            }

            location /media {
                # Conditional proxying of media for devhub (Zamboni) and fireplace.
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
                if ($http_referer ~ '^http://[^/]*?/(developers|media/css/mkt|media/css/devreg)') {
                    proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
                    break;
                }
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8675;
            }

            location /tmp {
                # Serve uploaded images from Zamboni.
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
                proxy_pass http://localhost:8002;
            }
        }
    }
